(Translated with gemma2)
(A break from people and their
problems is desirable,
but one should be careful
with one's wishes.)
One claims he is being watched by birds
in his garden.
(I need clients again,
just to realize,
that they are crazy
and not me.)
They don't look good.
If I want to be offended, I'll go to the police.
Unlike the police,
I still deliver quality.
Are you always like this with your clients?
- When they get on my nerves.
How can I help?
You won't believe me, but
I am being watched by birds.
I have a bird, after all.
Yes, you have a bird.
* Rattle *
Am I in the right place?
Maloney, private detective?
Hallelujah.
* Theme music from "Philip Maloney" *
The hair-raising cases
of Philip Maloney.
Today: "The Last Day".
With subtitles by SWISS TXT
If you need a father,<br>you're
at the wrong address.
<br>I imagined a detective
agency<br>more respectable.
<br>Then you have to go to the police.
<br>I was already
there,<br>they can't help me.
<br>Perhaps you<br>can't be helped anymore.
<br>It's about my mother:<br>she got
caught in a cult and can't get out.
They call themselves "The Last Day" and
practice in the forest for the end of the world.
Where else should they practice
the end of the world? - Nowhere!
I told her that the lunatics
only want their savings.
She has always been
a strange bird,
but now I'm afraid
that she's completely drifting away.
And she's giving away her inheritance?
It's not about the money.
- It's usually about money.
But you have to be able to afford this statement:
500 per day plus expenses
plus apocalypse surcharge.
You can have 500 now.
You get 1,000,
if you bring them back home
unharmed.
* Mysterious sounds *
(I fundamentally mistrust anyone who
spends their free time
in the woods.)
There's something fishy going on.
Get going! Scram!
I'd love to. I have to find a
woman named Thaler first.
Who are you?
- Maloney, private detective.
Why are you looking for Mrs. Thaler?
I'm supposed to
free her from a cult.
A group of lunatics preparing
for the end of the world.<br>
Does this seem familiar to you?
- Now she's completely lost it.
Who?
- My daughter.
I've told her
a thousand times,
\"The Last Day" is not a cult. How much did she pay you?
I'll pay double
if you leave right now.
Dead!
* Groaning *
What's going on here?
- My Spider Hole is an NSO.
Your what is a what?
A Spider Hole is a hiding place and an NSO is
what a hiding place should never be: an unsafe place.
Are you playing hide and seek?
- What does he want?
Merci, I have my own
pocketknife.
What is "The Last
Day", if it's not a cult?
A nursery?
- We are preparing for Teotwawki?
Teotwawki?
My daughter doesn't understand that.
- I don't either.
Teotwawki -
the end of the world as we know it.
And your daughter
has something against Anglicisms?
She would rather I spent
the whole day knitting and watching television.
But I want to survive.
- Yes, that's what we all want.
They have more
than just one screw loose.
Could you whistle your forest
back?
Watch out, no one whistles back at us. What do you want here?
Alright, Pesche, let
the old man have some space,
he hasn't done anything wrong.
As for you, you are all dead.
Dead, dead, dead, dead and dead.
<br>The task was,<br>to hide.
<br>That's elementary for survival<br>in
a post-apocalyptic world.
<br>You've prepared, you<br>have water, you
have food maybe even still electricity.
<br>The man here has nothing
anymore<br>and now he finds you.
<br>Maybe you're
lucky<br>and he's friendly.
maybe he's just hungry
and lost all sense of morality.
And then you are?
- Dead.
Right!
The greatest danger
are always other people.
Except Gabi.
- Louder, Hans, we can't hear you.
Always just Gabi, Gabi, Gabi.
* Giggling *
Stop.
Gabi was the only one who stayed in
her hiding place and thus survived.
And what are you all then?<br>
- (All) Dead!
<br>Yes, the only difference between
survival and death<br>lies in constant suspicion.
<br>Suspicion is our superpower.
<br>I'm suspicious<br>of those types too.
<br>Either they howl at the flat
moon<br>or have some other problem.
<br>Where is Gabi?
<br>Shouldn't we look for her?
Is good, Hans.
Task: Swarm out,
find Gabi. Allez hopp!
Schneckenberger.
Maloney. Nice to meet you.
People rarely come
to this part of the woods.
I just wanted a little
fresh air.
Mrs. Thaler doesn't really fit in with your group.
She is one
of my best students.
Did you recruit her directly
from the nursing home?
Age
doesn't matter to us.
But what about the bank account?
You're not really here for a sniff, are you?
More like sniffing around?
Somehow one has to get
their oxygen.
(Man) Help.
Potz!
* Threatening sounds *
Attention, make way.
Make way.
- I'll take over.
Gabi.
Gabi?
Is this a drill?
- No, Gabi fell down here.
Come on, come on, come on!
Have you seen it?
- No, we found her here.
Give me an EHS.
- EHS!
Another abbreviation already?
- First Aid Kit.
Quickly, quickly, quickly!
- Left, right.
Step back!
Gabi?
* Regular breathing *
How did the GABI work again?
The GABI
can't help Gabi anymore either.
Isn't Schneckenberger clear
that Gabi is already dead?
Ah, Gabi!
- What's wrong?
Carry on!
- It doesn't make any sense anymore.
* Melancholic music *
(Either Gabi
was very unlucky
or Schneckenberger is right
and the biggest danger
are the other people.)
Shall we bury her now?
Well, I'm not a big fan
of the police,
but usually they decide
whether someone is buried.
Okay, then we'll just call
the shepherds in uniform.
Yes.
Now look here, Maloney.
Are you with the Boy Scouts now?
- Those aren't Boy Scouts.
They are preparing
for the apocalypse.
Yes, yes, I know,
survival of the fittest.
This isn't for you, you
would die right away.
Now someone else
had to pay for it first.<br>
Yes, we assume, that
Mrs. Gabrielle Mosimann
over the roots she tripped
and fell down into the ravine.
In doing so, she
unfortunately bumped her head.
So unfortunate
is not even your wife.
Attention, Maloney! You would be amazed what
we have already seen as accidents at the police.
* Murmuring *
I don't understand anything.
He speaks rather softly,
you have to get closer.
What did you say?
- Nobody would fall down there.
Gabi always played it safe.
We communicated on important matters only
in code language or through dead letterboxes.
Now even mailboxes are dying.
The post is no longer what it used to be.
You don't believe, that
Gabi fell down here?
This is the first phase of
grief processing: Denial.
The other four will follow.
- I can hear you!
Phase 2, Anger.
That's an emergency number, you
can call anytime ... Bratwurst stamp card.
(Something's not right.)
(I don't have any evidence and the authorities
aren't on my side, but it wasn't an accident.)
(Hans says so too.)
(I did <br>what I always
do in such cases:
stepping out of the
darkness into the light.)
I called,
why aren't you answering?
No battery.
- That's no excuse.
No phone either.
Did something happen to my mother?
She's fine.
- What's the police doing here?
Another woman is dead in the woods.
- I knew it.
This forest is far too
dangerous for an old woman.
You're taking me to her right now.
- Fine, come along.
Mom, I want to talk to you.
- But I don't want to talk to you.
Do we have a problem here?
- No!
Ah, okay.
Mom, it's dangerous here.
It's dangerous in the
world, that's why I'm here.
These aren't your friends,
they only want your money.
At least I get
something for my money.
When Teotwawki comes,
you need a bunker.
Teotwa... which bunker?
You know, when the end of the world comes,
we have a place in the bunker right over there.
You spent your money
on a shitty bunker?
That's not shitty.
- Mom, I'm having a baby.
You can tell.
Maybe she isn't just after the money?
<br>Should I come to your place and hold your hand?
- Yes!
<br>You're coming with me now!
-<br> No, no, no!
<br>Are you pregnant? <br>- Obviously.
<br>No!
<br>Stop it!
<br>- No, you are not allowed to carry that.
<br>Help me carry it, Maloney.
<br>I shouldn't be lifting
heavy things either.
<br>Why not? <br>- Because I don't want to.
<br>I could help you.
<br>Are you the daughter?
<br>Are you the con man?
<br>\"Frau Thaler." <br>Would you
like to sit down for a moment?
<br>It is important and
right <br>to be concerned.
<br>Nobody understands
this as well as we do.
<br>But you can't force your
mother to come along.
And leave the tent alone,
it can't do anything about it.
You are useless, I don't
need your help anymore.
Do you still want to
keep us company?
Gladly, someone has to make sure
that there aren't any more accidents.
You don't think that was an accident?
Mistrust
is also my superpower.
6 p.m.
Dinner.
Maybe someone will get nervous
if I stand around here long enough.
Men, women,
something bad has happened.
And actually
we should stop here.
But that's not how we are, we are here for each other. Especially
when it gets tough and we are tested, we stand together and survive!
Now. And when the last day comes.
Hans lost Gabi today.
We lost Gabi today.
Let's hold hands now.
Close your eyes.
* Gentle humming *
All we have
is us ...
... and our bunker.
And if
our internal alarm system goes off,
then we'll get ourselves
to safety together.
It could happen any minute.
How much did you actually pay
for the bunker?
Is it at least nice?
You haven't even been inside yet.
It's only for emergencies.
- Yes, of course.
Of course there are outsiders
who try to divide us.
He's talking about me.
But we mustn't let ourselves
be unsettled by them.
What does he
actually still want here?
He also wants to give a speech.
Men, women.
Perhaps you can tell
me something about Gabi.
Mr.
Maloney,
that is not your assignment.
I have the feeling you liked
Gabi very much. Isn't that right?
- How can you say such a thing? Now is the
time when Hans needs to take a little courage.
Hans, we don't understand you.
It is true.
<br>We are a community
after all.<br>- You can't say that!
<br>Who among you had something
against Gabi?<br>- Nobody!
<br>Everyone.
<br>You all thought,<br>that she was paranoid
and asked too many questions.<br>- No!
<br>You're glad,<br>that she is dead.
<br>Come on, please.<br>- What nonsense!
Someone among
you pushed her down.
Who was that supposed to be?
Me?
Or him? Or her?
Or him? Or her? Or him?
(Screaming)
Or maybe all of us together?
Come on, Hans? Huh? What's up?
Quiet!
Life tests us, all of us.
Me too.
It's not always easy.
Mistrust doesn't help now.
Hans was dumped by Gabi today.
That's tough, it hurts,
that really hurts.
But there are worse things.
Much worse things.
Teotwawki is worse.
If you don't understand this,
if you don't understand this,
then you are lost.
Dead, dead, dead,
dead, dead, dead, dead, dead.
* They talk over each other. *
(As soon as a drop of uncertainty
has fallen,
paranoia begins to grow.)
(I did what I always do in such cases:
take a little nap.)
Let's see
if the bunker really exists.
* Mysterious sounds *
Are you hiding in the bushes?
I'm not hiding,
I just don't fall for it.
Bravo.
Beobachten Sie vielleicht
the group camping over there?
My interest is only in the
satisfied inhabitants of the forest.
Of those, there are not
many left, by the way.
Especially since those
miserable preppers appeared here.
They don't even take
nesting sites into account.
They are preparing
for the apocalypse.
For the birds
the apocalypse is already here.
Here is pure genocide taking place.
I have already complained to the
community. In vain!
They are not here
because of the bird deaths either.
No, because of human extinction.
The best thing for nature
is one less human.
There are too many of us anyway.
- Yes.
Did you see anything while birdwatching?
Oh yes.
A rare capercaillie!
There.
Aha.
The capercaillie has a mating call,
and it goes like this:
* Clicking, Gurgling *
You can't just
take those with you.
I have to, for a good cause.
Do you still want the
protective case and the lens?
No, no.
- Hello, that was really expensive!
Mr. Schneckenberger?
Where is your Teotwawki guru?
Murderer like to return
to the crime scene.
(The last address of the camp leader
is directed at the fish in the stream bed.)
(People are dying like flies,<br>first
Gabi, now Schneckenberger.)
(Even the mailboxes are dead.)
(Perhaps Gabi left a message for posterity
in one of these mailboxes.)
Where are they anyway?
(Either dead Gabi communicated in other ways
or someone emptied the mailbox
before me.)
Tough break Maloney, we're assuming,
that Jürg Schneckenberger
tripped over the
roots, fell into the ravine and
unluckily hit his head.
Do I have déjà vu? Is
this not serious now?
There are more things between heaven
and earth than one dreams of in school.
Goethe said so.
- That wasn't an accident.
That you can tell the Holy Ghost,
not me!
Statistically speaking that makes sense.
Many more people die in
accidents than by murder.
Schneckenberger murdered Gabi
and now someone wanted to play karma.
The world has sunstroke, Maloney,
no one sticks to the statistics anymore.
One of you ...
... is a murderer.
Or a murderess.
Mama, what's going on?
Is everything alright, only
Schneckenberger is dead.
What, but why? What is?
Calm down, I am investigating.
Suddenly you want to investigate.
What are you still doing here?
Observing strange birds.
- Be quiet now! Sit down. Please!
We have
digital photographic evidence,
that Gabi
Schneckenberger was murdered ...
... that Gabi was murdered
by Schneckenberger.
That's all fake!
These could be automatically
generated deepfakes.
And even if, where do
they come from at all?
Why are there any photos
of us?
Are we being monitored here?
- No, no.
By whom are we being
monitored here? My God!
This is worse than
back then with your files.
No fish, birds!
These are random photos
from an ornithologist.
Ornithologist?
- I saw them.
You have absolutely no idea.
Do you really believe,
that these are birds?
Are you absolutely sure about that?
Could the birds not
perhaps also be drones?
Do you know,
that there are now more bird drones
than real birds in the sky?
This is not a question hour!
Are you afraid of questions?
Damn,
I am not afraid of questions!
Listen up now! One has to be open to each other
and not always think, that one knows everything better.
V.a., when one actually needs oneself.
You all have a bird in your head here,
it's enough now!
What if you
liquidated Schneckenberger?
He rebelled against the prison sowin'
and it became too much for you.
Neutral Switzerland is a farce.
This has long been
a private company,
but nobody dares to
open their eyes.
I say, this is a farce!
And whoever gets too uncomfortable for you,
is simply
shot dead.
No, no, no,
nobody will be shot here.
Yes, they will only be arrested
and locked up for a long time.
* Voices murmuring *
Knife on the bread
and hands in your pants!
That's not a knife,
that's a machete.
Are you really that stupid?
(When the crazies
and the clueless duel,
one should stay out of the way.)
That's insulting language towards an officer,
you are under arrest.
* Mysterious sounds *
(Freshly illuminated<br>I
went back to the last day.)
(High time to fulfill
their greatest desire:
Teotwawki.)
* Piepsen *
The bunker alarm!
- The alarm has never gone off before.
This is the real deal.
- Teotwawki.
Everyone into the bunker!
Women and Malones first.
Are we all going into the bunker
and I have to die out here?
No, I bought the bunker
for both of us,
so we can survive together.
Come on, let's go in. Come! Hans!
What's wrong with you, Hans?
Do you rather not go into the bunker because
you already know, what is behind the door?
You emptied the dead mailbox,
didn't you?
What is that? No, no, no!
* Smug laughter *
This is a protected area here,
you shitty bird murderer!
Is that clear?
* Bird call *
Let me summarize again:
The world has not ended,
because the bunker did not exist.
But mailboxes are dead?
- Correct.
What's important for the police
is actually only,
that the world
has not ended.
Such nonsense.
- Excuse me?
Schneckenberger killed Gabi.
Because of Hans?
- No, because of the bunker.
Yes, yes, the bunker.
And Hans
killed Schneckenberger.
Because of the bunker?
- No, because of Gabi.
It just came over me.
Oh dear, what have I done?
That's now phase 4 of
grief processing: Despair.
Now only the fifth one
is missing: Acceptance.
I am a murderer, oh God.
- Voilà.
I am a murderer.
So.
Now there's a bratwurst.
- Enjoy your meal.
So.
And now are you going home to knit?
Certainly not. Just because the world
didn't end
today, doesn't mean
it won't end tomorrow.
But now
we are at least together.
(Ultimately, people prefer to be
paranoid together than sane alone.)
(Some are born for the
forest and others perish in it.)
(Some have a bird
and others are one.)
(Or maybe not.)
Sometimes it's better, if
you don't look too closely.
That's how it goes.
Subtitle: Metatxt on
behalf of SWISS TXT - 2025